doc/md: update GQL tutorial (#2528)
ent/ent: doc/md/tutorial-todo-gql-schema-generator.md

---
id: tutorial-todo-gql-schema-generator
title: Schema Generator
sidebar_label: Schema Generator
---

In this section, we continue the [GraphQL example](tutorial-todo-gql.md) by explaining how to generate
type-safe GraphQL schema from our `ent/schema`.

> #### Clone the code (optional)

Reviewer: is this a new tutorial or another step in the existing one? 
if its continuing the existing one i don't think we need all the house keeping at the top

The code for this tutorial is available under [github.com/a8m/ent-graphql-example](https://github.com/a8m/ent-graphql-example),
and tagged (using Git) in each step. If you want to skip the basic setup and start with the initial version of the GraphQL
server, you can clone the repository and run the program as follows:

```console
git clone git@github.com:a8m/ent-graphql-example.git
cd ent-graphql-example 
go run ./cmd/todo/
```

### Configure Ent

Go to your `ent/entc.go` file, and add the highlighted line (extension options):

```go {5} title="ent/entc.go"
func main() {
	ex, err := entgql.NewExtension(
		entgql.WithWhereInputs(true),
		entgql.WithConfigPath("../gqlgen.yml"),
		entgql.WithSchemaGenerator(),
		entgql.WithSchemaPath("../ent.graphql"),
	)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("creating entgql extension: %v", err)
	}
	opts := []entc.Option{
		entc.Extensions(ex),
		entc.TemplateDir("./template"),
	}
	if err := entc.Generate("./schema", &gen.Config{}, opts...); err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("running ent codegen: %v", err)
	}
} 
```

The `WithSchemaGenerator` option enables the GraphQL schema generation.

> ### Add Annotations To Todo schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add Annotations To `Todo` Schema
```

The `entgql.RelayConnection()` annotation is used to generate the Relay Edge, Connection, and PageInfo types for the Todo type. The `entgql.QueryField()` annotation is used to generate the `todos` field in the `Query` type.

```go {15,16} title="ent/schema/todo.go"
// Edges of the Todo.
func (Todo) Edges() []ent.Edge {
	return []ent.Edge{
		edge.To("parent", Todo.Type).

> 			Annotations(entgql.Bind()).

Reviewer 2: ```
```

			Unique().
			From("children").

> 			Annotations(entgql.Bind()),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```console
go generate ./...
```

You will see the `ent.graphql` file will be updated with the new content from the EntGQL's Schema Generator.

### Extending the type that generated by Ent

You may note that the type generated will include the `Query` type object with some fields that are already defined:

```graphql
type Query {
  """Fetches an object given its ID."""
  node(
    """ID of the object."""
    id: ID!
  ): Node
  """Lookup nodes by a list of IDs."""
  nodes(
    """The list of node IDs."""
    ids: [ID!]!
  ): [Node]!
  todos(
    """Returns the elements in the list that come after the specified cursor."""
    after: Cursor
  ,
    """Returns the first _n_ elements from the list."""
    first: Int
  ,
    """Returns the elements in the list that come before the specified cursor."""
    before: Cursor
  ,
    """Returns the last _n_ elements from the list."""
    last: Int
  ,
    """Ordering options for Todos returned from the connection."""
    orderBy: TodoOrder
  ,
    """Filtering options for Todos returned from the connection."""
    where: TodoWhereInput
  ): TodoConnection!
}
```

To add new fields to the `Query` type, you can do the following:

> ```graphql title="todos.graphql"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```graphql title="todo.graphql"
```

extend type Query {
	"""Returns the literal string 'pong'."""
	ping: String!
}
```

> You also do the extend for any type that generated by Ent. To skip a field from the type, you can use the `entgql.Skip()` on that field or edge.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can extend any type that is generated by Ent. To skip a field from the type, you can use the `entgql.Skip()` on that field or edge.
```

---

> Well done! As you can see, after adapted the Schema Generator feature we don't have to write GQL schema by hand anymore. Have questions? Need help with getting started? Feel free to join our [Slack channel](https://entgo.io/docs/slack).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well done! As you can see, after adapted the Schema Generator feature we don't have to write GQL schema by hand anymore. Have questions? Need help with getting started? Feel free to join our [Slack channel](https://entgo.io/docs/slack).
```

Let's use Discord instead.

> Well done! As you can see, after adapted the Schema Generator feature we don't have to write GQL schema by hand anymore. Have questions? Need help with getting started? Feel free to join our [Slack channel](https://entgo.io/docs/slack).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Well done! As you can see, after adapting the Schema Generator feature we don't have to write GQL schemas by hand anymore. Have questions? Need help with getting started? Feel free to join our [Slack channel](https://entgo.io/docs/slack).
```
